---
layout: post_teaching
title: Zoom Tips
category: biomath211winter2021
---

Welcome to Biomath 211: *Mathematical and Statistical Phylogenetics*. First of all and most importantly, I wish everyone stays safe and healthy during these challenging global times. Here is some essential information to get started with Biomath 211.

## Class webpage

Please bookmark and visit the course webpage frequently for the most updated information:
<https://ucla-biomath-211.github.io>.

## Lecture format

With the COVID-19 pandemic going on, there is some uncertainty in how 211 lectures are delivered.

For the 1st week, I will deliver lectures via Zoom <https://ucla.zoom.us/j/97761191576> in scheduled class times (Mon/Wed 9am-10:50am).   Lectures will include a mixture of presentations using slides, plenty of chalk-board work and hands-on practicals.

Depending on the feedback from the 1st week, I may make some adjustments. For example, if there are too many technical issues for real time Zoom lectures, then I may pre-record some lectures and only hold chalk-board work sessions on Zoom.

## Zoom tips

- If you have not used Zoom before, please download the most recent version of Zoom and learn some bascis such as mute and unmute audio/video, raise hand, chat, virtual background (if you please -- I keep it _real_ so everyone gets to see my messy garage), and so on.

- Good internect connection is critical. For example WiFi at Starbucks will not work well. Have a plan where you are going to take classes on Zoom. On campus WIFI (`UCLA-WIFI`, `EDUROAM`, etc) have good bandwidth (with good enough signal). But as of today (Mar 26, 2020), the staty-at-home order by the State and LA County is still in effect and you are **not** supposed to come to campus. Please pay close attention to the COVID-19 related university announcements at <http://ucla.in/coronavirus>.

  Usual residential internet service seems sufficient. For example my home has ATT 50Mbps service. My Zoom sessions usually go smooth, even with >5 devices actively streaming at the same time (I have one kid at home simultaneously doing virtual school).

  If you WiFi signal is not ideal, you may consider connecting your computer to the WiFi router directly using an ethernet cable.

- It is very helpful to wear headphone or mute yourself while others are speaking in Zoom. Of course, remember to unmute yourself before you speak.

- It is good etiquette to keep your video on, unless you have limited internet bandwidth.

- Please use your real name in Zoom so others know who they are talking to.

- In many practicals, I will screen-share software that we will be using. It can be hard to follow the Zoom and at the same time run your software on the same screen. If you have separate devices, for example, an iPad, then you can use the iPad for Zoom and run the software on your laptop or PC.
