---
layout: post_teaching
title: Problem Set 2
category: biomath211winter2026
---

## Due

* 2/13 by 5pm via BruinLearn (PDF format)

## Problem 1

If the current base is $x$ and one waits a time for there to be $t$ base replacements per site on average, the Jukes-Cantor model probability that the base becomes $y$ is

$$
p_{xy}(t) = \left\{
  \begin{array}{ll}
    \frac{1}{4} + \frac{3}{4}e^{-\frac{4}{3}t} & \mathrm{if}\ x = y \\
    \frac{1}{4} - \frac{1}{4}e^{-\frac{4}{3}t} & \mathrm{if}\ x \neq y \\
  \end{array}
  \right. .
$$

In comparing two aligned sequences, suppose that there are $n = n_1 + n_2$ sites where $n_1$ sites share the same base while $n_2$ are different.  Derive an expression for the likelihood of the observed data in terms of $n_1$, $n_2$ and $t$. Find the maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) for $t$.  Under what conditions is the MLE of $t$ infinite?

## Problem 2

Using the first 30 bp of the mitochondrial cytochrome $b$ gene (Table 1), find the Jukes-Cantor maximum likelihood distance for each pair.  Hint: if you skipped Problem 1, try Equation 11.18 on page 158 of _Felsenstein_.


Table 1: First 30 bps of the mitochrondrial cytochrome _b_ gene for five mammals.
```
Dolphin      ATG ACC AAC ATC CGA AAA ACA CAC CCT CTA
Hippopotamus ATG ACA AAC ATC CGA AAA TCT CAC CCC TTA
Camel        ATG ACA AAC ATC CGA AAA TCA CAC CCA CTT
Cow          ATG ACT AAC ATT CGA AAG TCC CAC CCA CTA
Giraffe      ATG ATC AAC ATC CGA AAG TCC CAC CCA CTA
```

## Problem 3

For the same data and distances from Problem 2, apply the neighbor-joining algorithm by hand to reconstruct the phylogeny.

## Problem 4

Use software to find the neighbor-joining tree.  Try either (1) `dnadist` / `neighbor` from the PHYLIP package, (2) Geneious or (3) write your our own code in R or any other programming language.  Attach copies of your output and source code as appropriate.
